
= rufus-jig

A HTTP client, greedy with JSON content, GETting conditionally.

Uses Typhoeus (http://github.com/typhoeus/typhoeus) or Patron (http://github.com/toland/patron) or
em-http-request (http://github.com/igrigorik/em-http-request) whenever possible, and falls back to
Net::HTTP if that's all we have.

It depends on rufus-json (https://github.com/jmettraux/rufus-json) for JSON parsing and dumping.

This library also contains some CouchDB helpers.

To select a HTTP transport layer for rufus-jig, just make sure you have loaded
the library before loading rufus-jig.

For Typhoeus:

  require 'typhoeus'
  require 'rufus/jig'

For Patron:

  require 'patron'
  require 'rufus/jig'

For em-http-request:

  require 'em-http'
  require 'rufus/jig'

For net-http-persistent:

  require 'net/http/persistent'
  require 'rufus/jig'

== examples

=== HTTP client

Let's say we have an hypothetical document server.

getting...

  require 'rufus/jig'

  h = Rufus::Jig::Http.new('127.0.0.1', 4567)

  p h.get('/document/xyz.json')
    #
    # => { "type" => "letter", "title" => "four birds" }
    #
    # if it's JSON, decodes it immediately

  p h.get('/document/xyz.txt')
    #
    # => "letter:\n\nfour birds"

  j = h.get('/document', :content_type => 'application/json')
  j = h.get('/document', :content_type => :json)
    #
    # 'Accepts' JSON

posting...

  p h.post(
    '/documents', '<doc>four birds</doc>', :content_type => 'application/xml')
    #
    # => "created."


=== Couch helpers

For the real thing : http://github.com/couchrest/couchrest
There is also the excellent : http://github.com/langalex/couch_potato

The class Rufus::Jig::Couch provides a get/put/delete trio that is couch-oriented. Json encoding/decoding is automatically handled as well as

put and delete return nil in case of success and true (conflict) or and exception else.

  require 'rufus/jig'

  c = Rufus::Jig::Couch.new('127.0.0.1', 5984, 'my_couch_db')

  c.put('_id' => 'coffee0', 'category' => 'espresso')
  c.put('_id' => 'coffee1', 'category' => 'instantaneous')

  doc0 = c.get('coffee0')
  doc1 = c.get('coffee1')

  c.delete(doc0)

  doc1['category'] => 'instant'
  c.put(doc1)

  c.delete(doc1['_id'], doc1['_rev'])

  # ...

  c.attach(
    doc0, 'picture', File.read('espresso.jpg'), :content_type => 'image/jpeg')
      # or
  c.attach(
    doc0['_id'], doc0['_rev'], 'picture', File.read('espresso.jpg'), :content_type => 'image/jpeg')

  picture = c.get('coffe0/picture')

  c.detach('coffee0', '1-x-newrevision-whatever', 'picture')

there is also

  c.all(:skip => 100, :limit => 100)
  c.all(:keys => %w[ doc0 doc1 doc3 ])
    # grabbing multiple docs in one go

  c.query('_design/my_design_doc/_view/my_view')
  c.query('my_design_doc:my_view')
    # 'querying' a view

  c.query_for_docs('my_design_doc:my_view')
    # querying for documents

bulk operations

  docs = c.all(:keys => %w[ doc0 doc1 doc3 ])
  c.bulk_delete(docs)
    # deleting in one go

  docs = c.all(:keys => %w[ doc0 doc1 doc3 ])
  docs.each { |doc| doc['status'] = 'copied' }
  c.bulk_put(docs)
    # updating in one go


=== Couch #on_change

Continuous feed with a 20s heartbeat :

  db.on_change do |doc_id, deleted|
    puts "doc #{doc_id} has been #{deleted ? 'deleted' : 'changed'}"
  end

  db.on_change do |doc_id, deleted, doc|
    puts "doc #{doc_id} has been #{deleted ? 'deleted' : 'changed'}"
    p doc
  end

Please note the 3 param block, it includes the changed document (Note : this only work with CouchDB >= 0.11).

This is a blocking method (one may want to wrap it in a thread).


=== Couch #dump and #load

To dump the current content of the Couch database to a 'backup.dump' file, one document per line, attachments included:

  db.dump("backup.dump")

To load that file later on (or somewhere else):

  db.load("backup.dump")

To wipe clean and then load:

  db.load("backup.dump", :overwrite => true)


== rdoc

http://rufus.rubyforge.org/rufus-jig/


== testing

  rake

or

  rspec spec/

tests all (plain jig and CouchDB).

  rspec spec/jig

only tests the plain jig stuff.

  rspec spec/couch

only tests the CouchDB stuff.

By default net/http is used. To test with another HTTP lib :

  JIG_LIB=typhoeus rspec spec/

You can specify patron, em, netp or net. Netp corresponds to http://seattlerb.rubyforge.org/net-http-persistent/

The specs require the json and sinatra gems. You can spot issues in the file server.log (created when running specs).


== known issues

- the EM based client cannot deal with non-ASCII paths


== mailing list

On the rufus-ruby list :

http://groups.google.com/group/rufus-ruby


== issue tracker

http://github.com/jmettraux/rufus-jig/issues


== irc

  irc.freenode.net #ruote


== the rest of Rufus

http://rufus.rubyforge.org


== authors

* John Mettraux, http://jmettraux.wordpress.com/
* Kenneth Kalmer, http://www.opensourcery.co.za/
* Torsten Schoenebaum, http://github.com/tosch/
* Marcello Barnaba, http://github.com/vjt/


== license

MIT

